Initial commit for IAWG review of Process Management chapter (#500)
pmix/pmix-standard: Chap_API_Proc_Mgmt.tex

\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_LOG_JOB_EVENTS}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_LOG_COMPLETION}
\optattrend

%%%%
\descr

Spawn a new job.
The assigned namespace of the spawned applications is returned in the \refarg{nspace} parameter.
A \code{NULL} value in that location indicates that the caller does not wish to have the namespace returned.
The \refarg{nspace} array must be at least of size one more than \refconst{PMIX_MAX_NSLEN}.

By default, the spawned processes will be PMIx ``connected'' to the parent process upon successful launch (see Section \ref{chap:api_proc_mgmt:connect}
for details).  
Both the parent process and members of the child job will receive notification of errors from processes in their combined assemblage.

\adviceimplstart
It is recommended that an implementation will cause the parent process to be given a copy of the new job's
information so it can query job-level info without incurring any communication penalties.  Similarly, the newly 
spawned child processes should receive a copy of the parent processes' job-level info due to the high likelihood 
that the child will make subsequent queries about its parent.
\adviceimplend

> 

Author: changed to advicermstart.   Clarified "... a copy of the new job's *job-level* information..."

\returnsimplenb

If executed, the status returned in the provided callback function will be one of the following constants:

\begin{itemize}
\item \refconst{PMIX_SUCCESS} All data was found and has been returned.

> \item \refconst{PMIX_ERR_JOB_ALLOC_FAILED} The job request could not be executed due to failure to obtain the specified allocation

Author: Changed to "The operation was successfully completed." which is what is used in at least one other place.

\item \refconst{PMIX_ERR_JOB_APP_NOT_EXECUTABLE} The specified application executable either could not be found, or lacks execution privileges.
\item \refconst{PMIX_ERR_JOB_NO_EXE_SPECIFIED} The job request did not specify an executable.
\item \refconst{PMIX_ERR_JOB_FAILED_TO_MAP} The launcher was unable to map the processes for the specified job request.
\item \refconst{PMIX_ERR_JOB_FAILED_TO_LAUNCH} One or more processes in the job request failed to launch
\item \refconst{PMIX_ERR_JOB_EXE_NOT_FOUND} Specified executable not found
\item \refconst{PMIX_ERR_JOB_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES} Insufficient resources to spawn job
\item \refconst{PMIX_ERR_JOB_SYS_OP_FAILED} System library operation failed
\item \refconst{PMIX_ERR_JOB_WDIR_NOT_FOUND} Specified working directory not found
\item a non-zero \ac{PMIx} error constant indicating a reason for the request's failure.

> \end{itemize}

Author: We do not appear to have one.  Looks like one should be pretty easy to create, but should be applied across all chapters?

> \end{itemize}

Reviewer: tracking issue https://github.com/pmix/pmix-standard/issues/512

\reqattrend

\optattrstart

> The following attributes are optional for \ac{PMIx} implementations:

Reviewer 2: Hmmm...those operations are not performed within PMIx. The attribute is simply communicated to the host for execution. I suspect you are trying to say that a PMIx implementation doesn't have to define them, but that doesn't make much sense as we don't provide that option elsewhere. You have to define it - the host just may not implement support for it.

Author: So we generally have a mix of the following:

Author: This chapter even has sections where some attributes are specifically called out as optional for PMIx implementations and other attributes are marked as optional for host environments for the same API.

Reviewer 2: Sure - it is optional to implement support for those attributes. We require support for others, and we are very clear which ones are optional for the implementation vs the host vs both.

It is critical that PMIx remain in the "messenger" role and not shift into being the "doer" of things. We do internally support PMIx functions, but we want to be very careful and clear where the line lies. And no, that isn't optional across PMIx implementations - or else the host now has to deal with uncertainty over what the implementation may or may not do, which will be very unpopular (should there ever be another implementation).

}
%
\declareAttribute{PMIX_HOSTFILE}{"pmix.hostfile"}{char*}{

> Hostfile to use for spawned processes.  The format of this file is determined by the \ac{PMIx} implementation or host environment.  The file may not be portable across implementations.

Reviewer 2: Nothing to do with the PMIx implementation - we just pass the name of the file.

Author: This comes down to whether we want to force the division of labor between PMIx or the host environment.  We didn't want to preclude the possibility that someone say, took OpenPMix and decided to implement spawn directly inside of it.   If we think that is never going to happen, we can go with:

The format of this file is determined by the host environment.  A hostfile may not be portable across systems with different host environments.

Reviewer 2: We do support local fork/exec from within the PMIx library, but that is nowhere equivalent to spawn as we provide no support for launching things across nodes. We really should stick with the divisions we have had since day one and not muddy the water.

}
%
\declareAttribute{PMIX_ADD_HOST}{"pmix.addhost"}{char*}{
Comma-delimited list of hosts to add to the allocation.
}
%
\declareAttribute{PMIX_ADD_HOSTFILE}{"pmix.addhostfile"}{char*}{

> Hostfile containing hosts to add to existing allocation.  The format of this file is determined by the \ac{PMIx} implementation or host environment.  The file may not be portable across implementations.

Reviewer 2: Ditto here - we only pass the name. We do not process the file.

}
%
\declareAttribute{PMIX_DISPLAY_MAP}{"pmix.dispmap"}{bool}{

> Provide process mapping upon spawn.  Format of the provided map is implementation specific.

Reviewer 2: Ouch - no, we don't provide process mapping. We simply pass the attribute to the host requesting that the _host_ display the resulting process map. We don't do anything.

Author: Suggestion during working group:   Request that the host environment provide process mapping information about the spawn operation.

Author: Our motivation for changing this from "display" to "provide" is that we didn't want to specify that the anything (be it pmix itself or host environment) has to display the mapping to a terminal.   Display seems to preclude options such as writing to a file or many other means it might use to make this information available to the user.

Author: What about:

Provide process mapping upon spawn.  The format of the provided map is specific to the host environment providing it.

Reviewer 2: We should not imply that PMIx is going to provide the mapping - we don't do mapping, so it makes no sense for us to try and display/provide it. This is the responsibility of the host as they actually did the mapping. Format of the map is certainly host environment specific, and we don't specify it anywhere.

}
%
\declareAttribute{PMIX_DISPLAY_MAP}{"pmix.dispmap"}{bool}{

> Provide process mapping upon spawn.  The format of the provided map is specific to the host environment providing it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Display process mapping upon spawn.  The format of the displayed map is specific to the host environment providing it.
```
should we specify if the map will appear on stderr/stdout?

Author: Added to the upcoming commit with changes from reading

}
%
\declareAttribute{PMIX_INDEX_ARGV}{"pmix.indxargv"}{bool}{

> If set to true, will use the given name of the executable (\code{argv[0]}) as a base name and each rank will be invoked using the base name with the string "-<\emph{rank}>" appended to it, where \emph{rank} is the \ac{PMIx} rank of the process being invoked.

Reviewer 2: Should probably make clear that PMIx isn't doing this - we are passing an attribute to the host environment requesting that _it_ do this. Whether or not it happens is completely up to the host.

Reviewer 2: Just noting that the change adds language like "...will use...", but leaves hanging the question of "who" will use the name. If you want to clarify, it might be something like "host is requested to use...". Or you can split this list to indicate which attributes are passed to the host for execution. Not entirely sure of the best way. Just trying to help you in your quest to clarify exactly what we mean here, and not replace one confusion with another.

}
%
\declareAttribute{PMIX_REPORT_BINDINGS}{"pmix.repbind"}{bool}{

> Report bindings of the individual processes.  How and where this information is reported is implementation dependent as well as dependent on whether the processes are created through a launching tool or by a direct call to \refapi{PMIx_Spawn}.

Reviewer 2: Again, PMIx isn't doing anything here - we just pass the attribute to the host requesting that _it_ generate this report.

}
%
\declareAttribute{PMIX_SPAWN_TOOL}{"pmix.spwn.tool"}{bool}{

> Indicate that the job being spawned is a tool.  The repercussions of setting this attribute varies based on implementation.  For example, some implementations may not perform cpu-binding on process marked as a tool. 

Reviewer 2: PMIx implementation isn't doing anything here - we just pass the attribute informing the host that the spawn request is launching a tool. What that means is totally up to the host.

Author: Thanks for the feedback.  We will re-visit these and consider updating to make it clearer that PMIx is just the messenger in all of these use cases.   We just wanted to make it clear that the format or input/output was not designated by PMIx, but agree that the best way to do that is to make it cleat that PMIx is only passing these through.

Reviewer 2: I think the question here again is that you stated the behavior "...varies based on implementation", but not on which implementation - the host or the PMIx library? I'm not aware of any PMIx repercussions, nor was that the intent of the attribute - it was provided so that the host environment would know this is a tool being spawned, and _if_ they wanted to do something different for tools, then they could do so.

\reqattrend

\optattrstart
The following attributes are optional for host environments that support this operation:

> 

Author: confirmed that the optattrstart only contains the banner and not the intro text.  Something to consider since we repeat that "The following attributes are optional...." everywhere in the standard, but that is an issue for another PR.

}

\begin{arglist}
\argin{cpuset_string}{\refattr{PMIX_CPUSET} string associated with a \ac{PMIx} process}
\argin{cpuset_string}{String returned by the \refapi{PMIx_server_generate_cpuset_string} \ac{API} (handle)}

> \arginout{cpuset}{Address of an object where the bitmap is to be stored (memory reference)}

Author: Fixed in a new commit

The \refstruct{pmix_device_type_t} is a \code{uint64_t} bitmask for identifying the type(s) whose distances are being requested, or the type of a specific device being referenced (e.g., in a \refstruct{pmix_device_distance_t} object).

\copySignature{pmix_device_type_t}{1.0}{

> typedef uint64_t pmix_device_type_t;

Reviewer: is this an ABI change?

Reviewer: this is an errata, the ABI document should already have it listed as a uint64_t
